```json
{
  "q1": "Operational Transformation (OT) with fallback to Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs) for edge cases. OT is mature for text editing (used by Google Docs) and handles most conflicts well, while CRDTs provide a theoretical guarantee for convergence. A hybrid approach ensures robustness.",
  "q2": "WebSocket for bidirectional real-time sync. Server-Sent Events (SSE) are simpler but lack bidirectional communication, which is critical for collaborative editing (e.g., cursor updates, live presence). WebSocket supports low-latency, full-duplex communication.",
  "q3": "PostgreSQL with JSONB for document storage. It offers ACID compliance, strong consistency, and flexible schema support for nested document structures. For very large documents, consider sharding or a dedicated document store like MongoDB, but PostgreSQL is the best single choice for most cases.",
  "q4": "Offline-first approach with local storage (IndexedDB) and conflict resolution on reconnect. Use a service worker to cache static assets and sync changes via a queue (e.g., Redux Offline or custom implementation). Apply OT/CRDT logic to merge offline changes when online.",
  "q5": "Apache Kafka for real-time events. Kafka provides high throughput, durability, and scalability for event streaming. Alternatives like RabbitMQ or Redis Pub/Sub work for smaller-scale systems, but Kafka is ideal for large-scale collaborative editing.",
  "q6": "Horizontal scaling with a WebSocket router (e.g., NGINX, HAProxy) and sticky sessions. Use a shared pub/sub system (Kafka/Redis) to broadcast messages across WebSocket servers. Stateless WebSocket servers can scale horizontally behind a load balancer.",
  "q7": "Cursor positions are shared as lightweight WebSocket messages with user IDs, timestamps, and coordinates. Store cursor data in Redis for low-latency access and broadcast updates to all collaborators in the same document session. Throttle updates to avoid spam.",
  "q8": "OAuth 2.0 with OpenID Connect (OIDC) for authentication. Use JWT for stateless sessions, with short-lived tokens and refresh tokens. Support SSO integrations (Google, Microsoft, etc.) for user convenience.",
  "q9": "Version history is implemented using a persistent data structure (e.g., immutable snapshots) stored in PostgreSQL. Each edit generates a new version with a delta (diff) from the previous version. Use a Merkle tree or similar for efficient storage and retrieval of historical versions.",
  "q10": "Multi-CDN strategy (e.g., Cloudflare + Fastly) for static assets (JS, CSS, fonts). Cache aggressively at the edge with long TTLs and cache-busting hashes. Use a global load balancer to route users to the nearest CDN endpoint.",
  "q11": "Chunk large documents into smaller segments (e.g., 100-line blocks) and load them on-demand. Use lazy loading and virtualized rendering (e.g., React Window) to handle large documents in the UI. Store chunks in a distributed database (e.g., Cassandra) if PostgreSQL becomes a bottleneck.",
  "q12": "Token bucket or sliding window rate limiting at the API gateway (e.g., Kong, Envoy). Enforce limits per user/IP for WebSocket connections, document edits, and API calls. Use Redis to track rate limits globally across servers.",
  "q13": "Automated daily backups to geographically distributed object storage (e.g., AWS S3 + Glacier). Use PostgreSQL WAL archiving for point-in-time recovery. Test backups regularly with automated restore drills. For critical documents, implement real-time replication to a secondary region.",
  "q14": "Asynchronous uploads with pre-signed URLs (e.g., AWS S3) to offload processing. Use a queue (Kafka/RabbitMQ) to process uploads and generate thumbnails. Implement client-side compression and chunking for large images. Show placeholders during upload and sync status via WebSocket.",
  "q15": "Monitoring stack: Prometheus + Grafana for metrics, ELK (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) or Loki for logs, and Jaeger/Zipkin for distributed tracing. Use OpenTelemetry for instrumentation. Key metrics: WebSocket latency, edit conflicts, document load time, and error rates. Alert on anomalies (e.g., high conflict rates, WebSocket disconnections)."
}
```