{
  "q1": "CRDT (Conflict-free Replicated Data Type) for conflict resolution, allowing concurrent edits without central coordination and automatic merging.",
  "q2": "WebSocket for real-time sync, providing full-duplex communication and lower latency compared to Server-Sent Events (SSE).",
  "q3": "Cassandra for document storage, offering high availability, linear scalability, and efficient storage of large, append-heavy documents.",
  "q4": "Offline editing is handled using a local CRDT implementation in the client. Changes are queued and synchronized with the server once connectivity is restored, resolving conflicts automatically using CRDT's merge functions.",
  "q5": "Kafka as the message broker for real-time events, ensuring ordered, scalable, and fault-tolerant distribution of document change events across services.",
  "q6": "Horizontal scaling for WebSocket servers is achieved through a load balancer with sticky sessions (session affinity) to ensure that a user's connection is consistently routed to the same server instance handling their document session, combined with a distributed in-memory data grid (e.g., Redis Cluster) for sharing state across instances.",
  "q7": "Cursor position sharing is implemented by broadcasting cursor update messages over WebSocket connections. Each message includes the user ID, document ID, cursor position (character index or block ID), and viewport information. Clients render cursors based on these updates, with debounce logic to reduce message frequency.",
  "q8": "OAuth 2.0 with JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for authentication, providing secure, stateless authentication and easy integration with third-party identity providers.",
  "q9": "Version history is implemented using an append-only log stored in a distributed database (e.g., Cassandra or DynamoDB). Each edit operation is recorded as a new version, with metadata including user ID, timestamp, and a summary of changes. Snapshots are periodically taken to optimize retrieval of older versions.",
  "q10": "Static assets (JavaScript, CSS, fonts) are served through a CDN (Content Delivery Network) like Cloudflare or AWS CloudFront, leveraging edge locations to reduce latency. Assets are versioned and cached with appropriate cache-control headers to ensure consistency and quick updates.",
  "q11": "Large documents are handled using a combination of chunking and lazy loading. Documents are divided into manageable chunks (e.g., sections or pages) stored separately. The editor loads only visible chunks into memory, fetching additional chunks on demand as the user scrolls or navigates. This approach minimizes initial load time and memory usage.",
  "q12": "Rate limiting is applied at multiple levels: API gateway (e.g., using token bucket algorithm) to protect backend services, per-user limits to prevent abuse, and per-IP limits for anonymous access. Exceeding limits results in HTTP 429 responses with Retry-After headers.",
  "q13": "Data backup strategy includes regular snapshots of the document database (e.g., daily full snapshots with incremental backups), replication across multiple geographic regions for disaster recovery, and version history logs stored in an immutable object storage (e.g., AWS S3 with versioning) for long-term archival.",
  "q14": "Concurrent image uploads are handled by assigning each upload a unique temporary ID and processing them asynchronously using a message queue (e.g., Kafka or RabbitMQ). The server stores uploaded images in an object storage (e.g., AWS S3) and updates the document metadata with the image URLs. Clients are notified of upload progress and completion via WebSocket messages.",
  "q15": "Monitoring and observability stack includes Prometheus for metrics collection, Grafana for dashboards and alerting, ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) for log aggregation and analysis, and OpenTelemetry for distributed tracing across microservices. Alerts are configured for latency spikes, error rates, and resource utilization, with automated remediation workflows where possible."
}