{"q1": "The conflict resolution strategy typically used in real-time collaborative editors is Operational Transformation (OT) or Conflict-free Replicated Data Types (CRDTs). OT is common in systems like Google Docs, where operations are transformed to ensure consistency across replicas. CRDTs offer eventual consistency without a central server, which can be beneficial for decentralized architectures.", "q2": "WebSocket is preferred for real-time sync due to its full-duplex communication channel, allowing for efficient, low-latency bidirectional communication between the client and server. Server-Sent Events (SSE) can be used for unidirectional updates but are less suitable for interactive collaborative editing.", "q3": "A document database like PostgreSQL with JSONB support or a NoSQL database such as MongoDB can be used for document storage. PostgreSQL is favored for its ACID compliance and rich querying capabilities, while MongoDB offers flexibility with document-oriented data models.", "q4": "Offline editing can be handled using client-side storage (e.g., IndexedDB or WebSQL) to cache local edits and later synchronize them with the server once the connection is reestablished. Operational transformation or CRDTs inherently support this scenario.", "q5": "A message broker like RabbitMQ or Apache Kafka can be used to handle real-time events. These brokers provide reliable message queuing and can decouple the publishing and consuming of events, ensuring that updates are processed efficiently and reliably.", "q6": "Horizontal scaling for WebSocket servers can be achieved through load balancers (e.g., Nginx or HAProxy) that distribute incoming WebSocket connections across multiple server instances. Each instance can handle a subset of connections, allowing the system to scale out by adding more servers as needed.", "q7": "Cursor position sharing can be implemented using a combination of operation timestamps and sequence numbers. Each edit operation includes a timestamp and a sequence number, allowing the server to reconstruct the cursor position accurately based on the order and timing of operations.", "q8": "Authentication can be handled using OAuth 2.0 or OpenID Connect, which provide robust mechanisms for secure user authentication and authorization. These protocols can be integrated with identity providers like Google, Facebook, or custom OAuth servers.", "q9": "Version history can be implemented by persisting a history of document operations in a dedicated table or collection. Each operation can include a version number, allowing the system to reconstruct previous states of the document and provide version comparison and rollback capabilities.", "q10": "CDN strategy for static assets involves hosting images, fonts, and other static files on a CDN like Cloudflare or Amazon CloudFront. This reduces latency and improves load times for users by serving assets from the nearest edge server.", "q11": "Handling large documents (1000+ pages) can be addressed by implementing pagination or lazy loading of document sections. The editor can load and render only the visible sections while keeping the entire document in the database, with the ability to scroll or navigate through the document as needed.", "q12": "Rate limiting can be implemented using middleware in the application layer (e.g., Express.js rate limiting middleware) or at the API gateway level. This prevents abuse and ensures fair usage by limiting the number of requests a client can make within a given time frame.", "q13": "Data backup strategy involves regular snapshots of the database and replication to a secondary storage solution. Automated backup scripts can be scheduled to run at off-peak hours, and data can be stored in a durable cloud storage service like AWS S3 or Google Cloud Storage.", "q14": "Handling concurrent image uploads can be managed by using a file storage service with built-in concurrency control (e.g., Amazon S3 with versioning) and generating unique filenames or using metadata to track uploads. The editor can display a loading indicator while the image is being uploaded and processed.", "q15": "Monitoring and observability stack can include tools like Prometheus for metrics collection, Grafana for visualization, ELK Stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) for log management, and distributed tracing tools like Jaeger or Zipkin to track requests across microservices. Alerting can be set up using tools like Alertmanager or Opsgenie to notify the team of anomalies or performance issues."}