```json
{
  "q1": "CRDT (Yjs) over OT or locking. CRDT operations commute, so concurrent and offline edits merge deterministically without a central transform server, avoiding OT's hardest correctness problems. The server still acts as the authoritative persistence and sequencing point, but correctness does not depend on it. Locking is rejected for poor UX; OT is rejected for implementation complexity and weak offline support.",
  "q2": "WebSocket (WSS). Editing is bidirectional and high-frequency: clients push operations and receive remote ops, presence, and acks over the same low-latency channel. SSE is server-to-client only and would force edits through separate HTTP requests, adding latency and connection overhead. Add ping/pong keepalive, auto-reconnect with exponential backoff, and resume tokens.",
  "q3": "PostgreSQL. One database covers document metadata, permissions, and versioning with ACID transactions, while CRDT snapshots and the append-only update log fit naturally as bytea rows (offloading very large snapshots to S3). It provides PITR, logical replication, and row-level security, avoiding the operational cost of a separate NoSQL store for metadata.",
  "q4": "Clients run the full CRDT locally and persist to IndexedDB (y-indexeddb) so editing works with zero connectivity. Outbound updates are queued locally; on reconnect the client syncs via state vectors so the server sends only the missing diff, and CRDT merge resolves conflicts deterministically. A service worker caches the app shell so the editor itself loads offline.",
  "q5": "Redis Pub/Sub for ephemeral real-time fan-out (document updates, presence) across WebSocket server instances: low latency and fire-and-forget semantics fit ephemeral events. Add Kafka for the durable event stream (version history, audit, analytics) where replay and retention matter, since pub/sub loses messages when no consumer is attached.",
  "q6": "Keep WebSocket gateways stateless and scale horizontally behind a load balancer with sticky sessions (cookie or consistent hashing). Use room-based routing: an edge router maps document ID to a gateway shard so all connections for a doc land on one server, with Redis pub/sub as the cross-server fan-out path for presence. Autoscale on connection count and CPU, drain connections gracefully on deploy, and let clients reconnect with resume tokens.",
  "q7": "Use an ephemeral awareness channel (Yjs Awareness protocol) separate from document state: each client broadcasts cursor/selection as an anchor bound to a CRDT position (not a raw character index) so it stays stable under concurrent edits, plus user id, name, and color. Throttle updates to ~50-100 ms, never persist them, and expire stale cursors via timeout so disconnected users disappear.",
  "q8": "OAuth 2.0 / OpenID Connect for sign-in (SSO via Google, Microsoft, etc.), issuing short-lived JWT access tokens plus rotating refresh tokens. The WebSocket handshake authenticates with the access token (or secure HttpOnly cookie), tokens are re-validated on reconnect and periodically on live connections, and per-document ACLs (owner/editor/viewer) are enforced server-side on every operation, not just at connect.",
  "q9": "Keep the append-only CRDT update log and take periodic immutable snapshots (every N ops or T seconds, whichever first) stored in S3 with version metadata (author, timestamp, op position) in Postgres. Any historical version is reconstructed by loading the nearest prior snapshot plus subsequent updates; restore creates a new version referencing old state rather than mutating history, and the UI computes diffs between snapshots.",
  "q10": "Serve all JS/CSS/fonts/WASM from a CDN (CloudFront or Cloudflare) with immutable, content-hashed filenames and 1-year max-age so deploys require no invalidation; the HTML shell is no-cache so it always references current hashes. Enable Brotli/gzip, HTTP/2 or HTTP/3, and preload the editor bundle; use CDN invalidation only as a fallback.",
  "q11": "Split very large documents into subdocuments/chunks (per chapter or fixed block count) so clients load and merge only what is needed, and render with virtualization so only the viewport is in the DOM. Load the latest snapshot plus recent updates instead of full history, prefetch adjacent chunks in the background, unload distant chunks to bound memory, and offload search and word count to server-side indexes.",
  "q12": "Redis-backed token bucket / sliding-window limits at the API gateway, per-user and per-IP, with tiered budgets per class: strict on auth endpoints, moderate on REST, generous on WebSocket edit messages with client-side batching (e.g., max N op-batches per second). Return 429 with Retry-After for HTTP; for WebSockets send a control frame and close with a policy code on abuse. Add per-document circuit breakers to stop runaway clients.",
  "q13": "Continuous WAL archiving to S3 (WAL-G or pgBackRest) for point-in-time recovery with an RPO of minutes, plus nightly full base backups with retained incrementals. Enable S3 versioning and lifecycle rules for snapshot objects, replicate backups cross-region, and run automated monthly restore drills to verify RTO. CRDT snapshots are immutable, so they are written once and never need mutation-aware backups.",
  "q14": "Issue pre-signed S3 URLs so clients upload directly to object storage in parallel, bypassing app servers; each upload gets a unique UUID key so concurrent uploads never collide. The client inserts a placeholder block with the upload ID into the document, and on completion (client confirmation plus S3 event notification) the placeholder resolves to the final URL. Large files use multipart upload; resizing and virus scanning run asynchronously via a queue.",
  "q15": "OpenTelemetry instrumentation across all services: traces to Jaeger/Tempo, metrics scraped by Prometheus with dashboards and alerts in Grafana, structured logs shipped to Loki (or ELK). Key metrics: WebSocket connection count, sync round-trip latency percentiles, op throughput, CRDT merge failures, presence lag, and upload error rates. Add client-side RUM for editor latency, synthetic canaries on the sync path, and PagerDuty for paging."
}
```