{
  "q1": "CRDT (Conflict-free Replicated Data Type) using a library like Yjs or Automerge. CRDTs handle distributed state and offline edits more gracefully than OT without requiring a central authoritative server for transformation.",
  "q2": "WebSockets, because collaborative editing requires full-duplex, low-latency bidirectional communication for both sending local edits and receiving remote edits/cursor movements.",
  "q3": "PostgreSQL, using JSONB for storing the serialized CRDT document state and relational tables for metadata, permissions, and version history.",
  "q4": "Use local storage (IndexedDB) to persist the CRDT state client-side. Edits are applied locally immediately and queued. Upon reconnection, the client syncs the local CRDT state with the server, which automatically merges the changes without conflicts.",
  "q5": "Redis Pub/Sub, to broadcast document updates and cursor movements across multiple WebSocket server instances, ensuring all clients viewing the same document receive updates regardless of which server node they are connected to.",
  "q6": "Use a Layer 7 load balancer (e.g., AWS ALB or HAProxy) with WebSocket support. Implement consistent hashing on the Document ID so clients editing the same document connect to the same server node, reducing cross-node Redis Pub/Sub traffic. Use Redis Pub/Sub for cross-node communication when scaling beyond a single node's capacity.",
  "q7": "Send cursor positions as ephemeral messages over the WebSocket connection. The position should be mapped to a stable identifier (like a block ID or CRDT node ID) rather than a raw character index, so it adjusts correctly when preceding text is inserted or deleted by other users.",
  "q8": "JWT (JSON Web Tokens) for stateless authentication. The token is passed during the initial WebSocket handshake (via query parameter or Sec-WebSocket-Protocol header) and validated by the WebSocket server before the connection is upgraded.",
  "q9": "Periodically snapshot the serialized CRDT state (e.g., every 5 minutes or every 100 edits) into a version history table in PostgreSQL. Store deltas or full snapshots depending on size, allowing users to view past versions and restore them by loading a specific snapshot into a new CRDT instance.",
  "q10": "Serve all static assets (JS, CSS, fonts, images) via a global CDN (e.g., Cloudflare or CloudFront). Use long-term caching with cache-busting via hashed filenames (e.g., app.[hash].js) and serve the HTML entry point with no-cache headers to ensure users always get the latest application code.",
  "q11": "Implement document chunking or pagination at the block/section level. Only load the CRDT state for the blocks currently in the user's viewport, lazy-loading adjacent blocks as the user scrolls. The server maintains the full document state but only transmits the requested chunks over the WebSocket.",
  "q12": "Use a distributed token bucket rate limiter backed by Redis. Apply limits to both REST API endpoints (e.g., 100 req/min) and WebSocket messages (e.g., 50 messages/sec per client) to prevent abuse and protect server resources from flooding or malicious scripts.",
  "q13": "Automated daily PostgreSQL snapshots with continuous Write-Ahead Logging (WAL) archiving for Point-In-Time Recovery (PITR). Store backups in a different region/cloud provider for disaster recovery, and periodically test restoration procedures.",
  "q14": "Use pre-signed URLs. The client requests an upload URL from the backend via REST, uploads the image directly to object storage (e.g., S3), and then sends the resulting image URL and metadata over the WebSocket to be inserted into the CRDT document state, bypassing the WebSocket server for the heavy file transfer.",
  "q15": "Prometheus for metrics (WebSocket connections, message latency, error rates), Grafana for dashboards, Loki or ELK for centralized logging, and Jaeger for distributed tracing to track document sync latency across microservices and WebSocket nodes."
}