```json
{
  "q1": "Operational Transformation (OT) is the best choice for conflict resolution in a real-time collaborative document editor. OT ensures that concurrent edits from multiple users are integrated correctly, maintaining consistency without conflicts. While CRDTs are an emerging alternative, OT is more widely used and battle-tested in systems like Google Docs.",
  "q2": "WebSockets are the preferred choice over Server-Sent Events (SSE) for real-time sync in a collaborative document editor. WebSockets provide bidirectional, full-duplex communication, which is essential for both sending and receiving real-time updates (e.g., edits, cursor positions) efficiently.",
  "q3": "MongoDB is the single best choice for document storage. It is a scalable, document-oriented database that supports real-time operations via change streams, making it ideal for handling collaborative editing scenarios where documents are frequently updated and need to be synced across multiple users.",
  "q4": "Offline editing can be handled by storing the document state locally (e.g., using IndexedDB) and using Operational Transformation (OT) or CRDTs to manage local changes. When connectivity is restored, these local changes are synced with the server. This approach ensures that users can continue editing even without an internet connection and minimizes conflicts during sync.",
  "q5": "Apache Kafka is the recommended message broker for real-time events. Kafka's scalability, durability, and ability to handle high-throughput data streams make it an excellent choice for broadcasting real-time updates across multiple WebSocket servers and ensuring low-latency synchronization.",
  "q6": "Horizontal scaling for WebSocket servers can be achieved by using a message broker (like Kafka) to broadcast changes to all connected clients. Each WebSocket server subscribes to the same topic, and when a change is published, it is broadcast to all servers, which then relay it to their connected clients. This approach allows for stateless WebSocket servers that can be scaled horizontally behind a load balancer.",
  "q7": "Cursor position sharing can be implemented by tracking each user's cursor position and broadcasting it to other users. To handle concurrent edits, the cursor positions are adjusted using Operational Transformation (OT) or CRDTs to ensure they remain accurate relative to the current document state. This provides a seamless collaborative experience where users see each other's cursors in real-time.",
  "q8": "OAuth 2.0 with OpenID Connect is the recommended authentication protocol. It provides a secure and scalable way to authenticate users, supporting features like token-based authentication, third-party logins, and integration with identity providers, making it suitable for a collaborative document editor.",
  "q9": "Version history can be implemented by storing snapshots of the document after certain changes or intervals. Each version can reference the previous version, creating a tree-like structure that allows for efficient retrieval and comparison of versions. This approach ensures that users can revert to previous versions if needed, providing a robust version control system.",
  "q10": "A Content Delivery Network (CDN) like Cloudflare or AWS CloudFront can be used to serve static assets. These CDNs cache assets at edge locations worldwide, reducing latency and improving load times. Proper caching strategies, such as caching based on content hash or version, ensure that users always get the latest assets without unnecessary cache invalidation.",
  "q11": "Large documents (1000+ pages) can be handled by splitting them into chunks or pages and storing them separately. This allows the system to load only the necessary parts when a user is editing a specific section, improving performance and reducing load times. Additionally, lazy loading can be implemented for parts of the document that are not currently being edited.",
  "q12": "Rate limiting can be implemented using a token bucket algorithm at the API gateway or load balancer level (e.g., using NGINX or Cloudflare). This approach limits the number of requests a user can make in a given time period, preventing abuse and ensuring fair usage while protecting against DDoS attacks.",
  "q13": "A data backup strategy should involve daily snapshots of the database, along with incremental backups for efficiency. Cross-region replication can provide additional protection against data loss due to regional outages. Regular backups should be tested to ensure they can be restored quickly if needed, ensuring data durability and availability.",
  "q14": "Concurrent image uploads can be handled by assigning unique identifiers to each upload and using a message queue (like Kafka) to process uploads asynchronously. Chunked uploads can be implemented to handle large images, and retry mechanisms can ensure that failed uploads are retried automatically, providing a robust and efficient upload process.",
  "q15": "A comprehensive monitoring and observability stack can include Prometheus for metrics collection, Grafana for visualization, the ELK stack (Elasticsearch, Logstash, Kibana) for logging and log analysis, and distributed tracing tools like Jaeger or Zipkin. This stack provides deep insights into system performance, reliability, and debugging, ensuring that the collaborative document editor operates smoothly and efficiently."
}
```