```json
{
  "q1": "CRDT (Conflict-free Replicated Data Types) — specifically a variant of Yjs or Automerge-based CRDT for text (RGA or WOOT-equivalent). CRDTs allow each client to operate locally without coordination, resolve conflicts automatically without a central arbiter, and support full offline editing. OT (Operational Transformation) requires a central server to sequence operations, adding latency and a single point of coordination. CRDTs give us eventual consistency, offline-first semantics, and simpler client-side logic because the state converges deterministically regardless of message order.",
  "q2": "WebSocket for bi-directional real-time sync. SSE (Server-Sent Events) is unidirectional (server→client only) and would require the client to use HTTP polling for upstream edits, adding latency and overhead. WebSocket gives us full-duplex communication so each client can push local operations and receive remote operations simultaneously with sub-50ms round-trip. We use a persistent WebSocket connection per document session with a heartbeat (ping/pong every 15–30 seconds) to detect disconnections. As a fallback, we support HTTP long-polling for clients behind restrictive proxies, but the primary transport is WebSocket.",
  "q3": "PostgreSQL with JSONB for document storage. PostgreSQL gives us ACID transactions for document metadata (ownership, permissions, timestamps), full-text search via pg_trgm/GIN indexes for document content search, and JSONB for storing the CRDT state blob or document AST. We partition tables by document_id hash for horizontal scaling. For the raw document content, we store the CRDT state as a binary/JSONB column and periodically snapshot the rendered document (for recovery). This avoids the complexity of a document-specific database and leverages proven tooling for access control, query, and backup.",
  "q4": "Offline editing via CRDT local-first operation. Each client maintains a local CRDT instance and applies local operations immediately (optimistic UI). Operations are queued and sent to the server when the connection resumes. The server applies incoming operations to its CRDT state and broadcasts the diff to all connected clients. On reconnect, the client sends its pending operation log; the server merges it with its state using CRDT merge semantics. We also persist the local CRDT state to IndexedDB (on the browser side) so the user can close the tab and return with all edits intact. A sync status indicator (synced / syncing / offline) is shown in the UI.",
  "q5": "Redis Pub/Sub (or Redis Streams for persistence) as the message broker for real-time events. Each document has a Redis channel (e.g., doc:{doc_id}:ops). WebSocket server instances subscribe to channels for documents they have connected clients for. When a server receives an operation from a client, it publishes the operation to the Redis channel; all server instances receive it and push it to their subscribed clients. Redis provides sub-millisecond pub/sub latency, built-in clustering, and persistence via AOF/RDB. For durable event history (e.g., version history replay), we use Redis Streams to retain the last N operations per document, which can be consumed by version-history workers.",
  "q6": "Stateless WebSocket application servers behind a sticky-session-aware load balancer. Each WebSocket server holds per-document CRDT state in memory (or a lightweight in-memory cache like Redis for hot documents). For horizontal scaling, we use consistent hashing on document_id to route WebSocket connections for the same document to the same server instance. When a server instance scales up or down, we use a shared Redis store for CRDT state snapshots so the new instance can warm up. The load balancer (e.g., HAProxy or AWS ALB with sticky sessions) distributes new WebSocket connections across instances. Document state that exceeds memory limits is persisted to PostgreSQL and lazily loaded.",
  "q7": "Cursor position sharing via a separate cursor state CRDT or small operation stream. Each client maintains its local selection range (cursor position, selection anchor, timestamp, user color). These cursor updates are sent as lightweight messages (not full document operations) over the same WebSocket connection. We maintain a per-document cursor map in a shared store (Redis) so any connected client can render remote cursors. Cursors are ephemeral — they are not persisted beyond the session. To avoid cursor flicker, we throttle cursor update broadcasts to 30 Hz per user and use delta compression (only send changes). The frontend renders remote cursors with user-provided colored cursors and names.",
  "q8": "OAuth 2.0 / OpenID Connect via an identity provider (e.g., Auth0, Keycloak, or Google Identity). The frontend exchanges an authorization code for an access token and a refresh token. The access token (JWT) is sent with each WebSocket upgrade handshake and each REST API call for document CRUD and permission checks. The JWT contains the user_id, roles, and a short expiry (15 min); the refresh token rotates via a secure refresh endpoint. For document-level permissions, we store ACLs in PostgreSQL (doc_id, user_id, permission: read/write/admin) and validate on every operation via a middleware that reads the JWT and checks the ACL. Service-to-service communication between backend components uses mTLS with mutual authentication.",
  "q9": "Version history via CRDT operation log stored in Redis Streams (for recent history) and PostgreSQL (for archival). Every operation applied to a document is appended to a Redis Stream per document, including operation type, user_id, timestamp, and a vector clock. Clients can request a diff between two versions by consuming the operation stream between two cursor marks. For long-term archival, a background worker batches operations into periodic snapshots (e.g., every 100 operations or every 5 minutes) stored as full document state in PostgreSQL, creating a version chain. Users can view a version timeline, diff two versions, or restore a previous version (which replays operations up to that point). Deleted operations are never purged from the stream to maintain integrity.",
  "q10": "Multi-CDN strategy for static assets. Document assets (fonts, the editor UI bundle, embeds) are served from a global CDN (CloudFront or Fastly). The editor client JS bundle is versioned by hash in the filename and cached for a year with cache busting. The WebSocket servers and API endpoints are NOT behind the CDN — they are accessed directly via the load balancer to avoid the WebSocket upgrade being intercepted. We use a split configuration: the CDN serves index.html and all static resources; the origin servers handle WebSocket connections and API calls. Asset URLs are resolved via a CNAME that points to the CDN, while API endpoints use a separate domain to keep WebSocket traffic clean.",
  "q11": "Chunked document loading with virtual rendering. The document is stored as a CRDT string/sequence, but the editor client uses virtual scrolling (e.g., render only the visible 50–100 lines via React Virtualized or similar). The CRDT handles the entire document as one sequence, but the UI only renders the viewport. For very large documents (1000+ pages), we enable pagination mode where the document is split into page-sized chunks server-side, each with its own CRDT region. The client loads pages on demand. Additionally, we compress the CRDT state using gzip/brotli on the wire and store snapshots in PostgreSQL with TOAST compression. Clients receive document deltas (byte ranges) instead of full state on initial load.",
  "q12": "Token-bucket rate limiting per user and per document at two layers. At the API gateway (e.g., Kong or AWS API Gateway), we enforce a global per-user rate limit (e.g., 1000 ops/sec) to prevent abuse. At the WebSocket server level, we implement a per-document token bucket so that a single document cannot be flooded with operations from one client, protecting other connected clients. We also rate-limit cursor updates separately (throttled to 30/sec per user). If a user exceeds the limit, we return HTTP 429 on REST endpoints and drop or buffer operations on WebSocket with a notification to the client. Rate limit counters are stored in Redis with TTL matching the window.",
  "q13": "Multi-layer backup strategy. First, PostgreSQL WAL archiving with point-in-time recovery (PITR) using pg_basebackup and WAL-E or Barman. This gives us the ability to restore to any second within the retention window (7 days). Second, daily logical backups of PostgreSQL to S3 via pg_dump, retained for 30 days. Third, Redis AOF persistence with daily RDB snapshots stored to S3, retained for 7 days. Fourth, cross-region replication of PostgreSQL using read replicas in a secondary region for disaster recovery. Backup integrity is verified weekly via checksum comparison. Recovery SLA: RPO < 1 minute (WAL), RTO < 15 minutes (failover to secondary region).",
  "q14": "Concurrent image uploads via a separate upload service with optimistic rendering. Images are uploaded directly to object storage (S3) through a pre-signed URL generated by the API server. The upload service (a lightweight stateless microservice) handles chunked multipart uploads for large images, deduplication by content hash (MD5/sha256), and thumbnail generation via a worker queue (SQS + Lambda or RabbitMQ + Celery). When an image is inserted into the document via a CRDT operation (an image embed operation), the client renders it optimistically using a placeholder with the image hash. Once the upload completes, the thumbnail URL is stored in the document metadata and broadcast to connected clients. Concurrent uploads from multiple users in the same document are isolated by image hash — duplicate uploads are resolved by reusing the existing S3 object.",
  "q15": "Observability stack: metrics via Prometheus + Grafana, logs via Loki/ELK, traces via OpenTelemetry. Each WebSocket server and API service exposes metrics (active connections per document, ops/sec, latency p99, memory usage) to a Prometheus scraper. Grafana dashboards show real-time document session counts, per-document operation throughput, and WebSocket connection health. Logs are structured (JSON) and shipped to Loki or Elasticsearch via Fluentd; log levels are set to WARN for production. Distributed traces (Jaeger or Tempo) capture end-to-end latency for a user operation from client through WebSocket server, Redis pub/sub, and PostgreSQL. Alerts are configured in Alertmanager for: WebSocket connection drops > 5% of sessions, Redis pub/sub lag > 1 second, PostgreSQL replication lag > 500ms, and error rates > 1%. A health check endpoint on each service reports liveness and readiness for orchestration (Kubernetes)."
}
```