```json
{
  "q1": "The free plan supports up to 5 users per workspace. If your team grows beyond that, you can upgrade to a paid plan at any time.",
  "q2": "Yes, you can import your data from Trello using either CSV file upload or our API import tool. Both methods preserve your boards, cards, and attachments.",
  "q3": "Yes, we offer native mobile apps for both iOS and Android. You can download them from the App Store or Google Play.",
  "q4": "We guarantee a 99.9% uptime SLA for all paid plans. Service credits are available if we fall below this threshold.",
  "q5": "Your data is encrypted with AES-256 encryption at rest and TLS 1.3 in transit. This applies to all plans, including the free tier.",
  "q6": "Yes, SSO is available via SAML 2.0 and OIDC on the Business plan. You can configure it in your workspace security settings.",
  "q7": "We offer native integrations with Slack, GitHub, Jira, and Google Workspace, plus 50+ additional integrations via Zapier. All integrations are available on paid plans.",
  "q8": "The maximum file attachment size is 25MB per file, with a total storage limit of 10GB per project. Enterprise plans can request higher limits.",
  "q9": "Yes, a self-hosted deployment option is available on the Enterprise plan only. Contact our sales team for infrastructure requirements and pricing.",
  "q10": "You can cancel by going to Settings > Billing > Cancel in your workspace. Your subscription remains active until the end of your current billing period.",
  "q11": "Yes, we offer a 20% discount when you choose annual billing on any paid plan. The discount is applied automatically at checkout.",
  "q12": "After cancellation, your data is retained for 30 days in case you change your mind. After that period, it is permanently deleted from our servers.",
  "q13": "Yes, we provide a RESTful API with a rate limit of 1000 requests per minute. Full documentation is available in our developer portal.",
  "q14": "We support Kanban, Scrum, Waterfall, and hybrid methodologies. You can switch between views or combine approaches within the same project.",
  "q15": "You can reach support via email anytime, live chat during business hours, or phone support if you're on the Enterprise plan. We typically respond to emails within 24 hours."
}
```