{"q1": "CRDT (specifically a Yjs-style sequence CRDT). Unlike OT, CRDTs don't require a central transformation authority, converge automatically, and are commutative/idempotent — which makes offline editing and multi-server sync trivial. Locking is rejected: it kills real-time collaboration. Document state is stored as CRDT updates plus periodic compacted snapshots.", "q2": "WebSocket. Collaboration is inherently bidirectional (clients push edits, server broadcasts them), and SSE is server-to-client only. Use WSS with a fallback to long-polling for restrictive proxies; SSE could supplement for read-only viewers but isn't the primary channel.", "q3": "PostgreSQL. JSONB columns store CRDT document snapshots, a separate append-only table stores the update log, and ACID transactions guarantee snapshot+log consistency. It also handles ACLs, metadata, and version history in one system. Pair it with S3 for large binary snapshots if needed.", "q4": "CRDTs make offline support natural: persist local updates in IndexedDB, let the user keep editing, and on reconnect push the queued updates and pull remote ones — merges converge automatically with no conflict UI. Show offline status in the UI and resolve the sync via the CRDT state vector exchange.", "q5": "Redis Pub/Sub (or Redis Streams) for low-latency fan-out of document ops between WebSocket servers. Add Kafka only for the durable audit/analytics event stream (op logging, billing, activity feeds) where replay and retention matter.", "q6": "Stateless WebSocket servers behind an L7 load balancer with consistent hashing on document ID, so collaborators on the same doc land on the same node when possible; Redis Pub/Sub bridges rooms that span nodes. Autoscale on connection count, drain connections gracefully on deploys, and shard rooms by document ID.", "q7": "Treat cursors as ephemeral presence data, never persisted. Broadcast via an awareness protocol (e.g., Yjs awareness) over the existing WebSocket, throttled to ~10–15 updates/sec per client with debounce. Store cursors as CRDT relative positions so they stay correct as concurrent edits shift text, and expire presence after a TTL.", "q8": "OAuth 2.0 + OpenID Connect for login (supporting Google/SSO), issuing short-lived JWT access tokens with refresh tokens. The JWT is presented during the WebSocket handshake (first message or subprotocol) and revalidated on reconnect. Document-level authorization (owner/editor/commenter/viewer) is enforced server-side on every op, not just at connection time.", "q9": "Snapshot + operation log: store periodic full snapshots (every N ops or T minutes) plus the append-only CRDT update log; any version is reconstructed by loading the nearest snapshot and replaying updates. Support named checkpoints, and compact/garbage-collect old updates once a newer snapshot exists. Retention policy tiers by plan.", "q10": "Serve all static assets (JS bundles, CSS, fonts, editor WASM) through a CDN (CloudFront/Cloudflare) with content-hashed filenames, immutable year-long cache headers, Brotli compression, and HTTP/3. HTML entry point is no-cache or short-TTL. Dynamic document data bypasses the CDN, but published/read-only shared docs can be edge-cached.", "q11": "Virtualized rendering: only mount the visible viewport (plus buffer) in the DOM, windowing the rest. Chunk the document model (per-section CRDTs or a tree structure) so loading and sync are incremental, lazy-load sections on scroll, and offload layout/pagination to a Web Worker. Cap in-memory ops and stream old updates from the server on demand.", "q12": "Token bucket per user and per IP at the API gateway, backed by Redis for distributed enforcement. Separate limits: HTTP API (e.g., 100 req/min), WebSocket ops (e.g., 50 ops/sec per connection), connection churn, and upload bandwidth. Return 429 with Retry-After, and apply backpressure by dropping/batching low-priority presence messages first.", "q13": "Point-in-time recovery via PostgreSQL WAL archiving, plus daily full snapshots to S3 with cross-region replication and 30-day retention. The append-only op log is itself replicated and acts as a fine-grained recovery source. Run quarterly restore drills and encrypt backups at rest.", "q14": "Clients upload directly to S3 using pre-signed URLs (multipart/resumable for large files), keeping load off app servers. On completion, an event triggers an async worker queue for virus scanning, resizing, and format optimization; the document shows a placeholder with pending state until processing finishes. Deduplicate by content hash and serve via CDN.", "q15": "Prometheus + Grafana for metrics, OpenTelemetry for distributed tracing across WS servers and the sync pipeline, Loki or ELK for structured logs, and Sentry for client-side errors. Key metrics: active connections, op propagation latency (p50/p99), sync lag, merge rate, snapshot duration, and Redis pub/sub lag. Alert via PagerDuty with SLOs on sync latency and availability."}