```json
{
  "q1": "CRDT (YATA-based, e.g., Yjs). Chosen over OT because it eliminates the need for a central transformation authority, lets sync servers act as stateless relays that scale horizontally, and provides offline-first support for free. OT (Google Docs' actual approach) is viable but notoriously hard to implement correctly and couples you to a single sequencer; locking is rejected outright as it destroys real-time UX.",
  "q2": "WebSocket. Editing requires a bidirectional, low-latency channel for high-frequency client-to-server ops; SSE is server-to-client only and would force ops over separate HTTP POSTs, adding latency and complexity. Use WebSocket for editors, optionally SSE for read-only viewers, with long-polling fallback for restrictive corporate networks.",
  "q3": "PostgreSQL. Store the append-only CRDT update log as bytea rows plus periodic compacted snapshots; JSONB for doc metadata, permissions, and full-text search; partition the updates table by doc_id/time. The hot path lives in sync-server memory — Postgres provides durability, ACID, and operational maturity. Object storage (S3) holds old snapshots and large blobs.",
  "q4": "Offline-first via the local CRDT replica: persist the update log in IndexedDB, keep editing against the in-memory doc, and queue outbound updates. On reconnect, exchange state vectors with the server and sync only missing deltas — CRDT convergence resolves interleaved edits automatically. A Service Worker caches the app shell; the UI shows sync status and pending-op counts.",
  "q5": "Redis Pub/Sub for the hot path — cross-node fan-out of doc updates is ephemeral, latency-critical, and needs no persistence (updates are already durably logged). Redis Streams adds brief replay for reconnecting nodes. Kafka sits alongside as the durable event stream for audit, analytics, and version-history triggers.",
  "q6": "Consistent hashing on document ID: each doc has a 'home' sync server owning its in-memory CRDT state; the LB routes a doc's connections there (sticky by doc, not user). Redis Pub/Sub broadcasts updates to secondary nodes holding connections for that doc. Nodes lazy-load state from the snapshot store on first connection, evict idle docs to snapshot, and rebalance via a consistent-hash ring with virtual nodes.",
  "q7": "Ephemeral awareness protocol (Yjs-style): cursor, selection, name, and color as per-client ephemeral state, never persisted. Clients throttle updates to ~30ms and broadcast to the doc's room; entries expire via ~30s heartbeat TTL. Crucially, cursors are anchored as CRDT relative positions so they shift correctly when remote edits insert or delete text around them.",
  "q8": "OIDC (OAuth 2.0) against an IdP (Keycloak/Auth0/Google) issuing short-lived JWTs. Validate the JWT on the WebSocket upgrade request; refresh over HTTPS. Authorization is separate from authentication: check the per-document ACL at connection time and subscribe to permission-change events to evict live connections immediately when access is revoked.",
  "q9": "Event-sourced hybrid: append-only update log plus periodic compacted snapshots (e.g., every 5 minutes or 1k ops). Any version = nearest snapshot + replay of subsequent updates; user-named versions pin a snapshot. Recent log in Postgres, older segments compacted to S3. Diffs computed from CRDT state vectors; restore creates a new doc branch rather than mutating history.",
  "q10": "Content-hashed, immutable assets (JS/CSS/fonts) served with cache-control: max-age=31536000, immutable from a major CDN (CloudFront/Fastly/Cloudflare) with Brotli and HTTP/3. The HTML entry shell stays no-cache so deploys propagate instantly. Optionally extend the edge to serve published, read-only document renders for public sharing links.",
  "q11": "Shard the document into block/section-level CRDT instances synced independently; lazy-load only blocks near the viewport and virtualize rendering so DOM size stays bounded. Images and embeds are external references, never inline. Server-side, cap per-doc memory with snapshot-on-eviction and idle GC. This keeps bandwidth, memory, and render cost proportional to visible content, not total doc size.",
  "q12": "Layered: token-bucket at the edge per IP/account (Redis-based sliding window), per-connection op-rate limit on the WebSocket (~50 ops/s after client-side coalescing of keystrokes into 30-50ms batches), and per-document aggregate flood protection. Legit typing is ~10 ops/s, so respond to pressure with backpressure signals (batch more, drop cursor updates) before disconnecting; hard-drop only clear abuse.",
  "q13": "Postgres: streaming replication for HA plus continuous WAL archiving (WAL-G) to versioned, cross-region-replicated S3 for point-in-time recovery — RPO in seconds to minutes. Nightly physical snapshots, weekly logical dumps, 3-2-1 retention with lifecycle policies. The CRDT update log in S3 doubles as an audit trail. Quarterly restore drills are mandatory; an untested backup is not a backup.",
  "q14": "Conflict-free by design: each upload is an independent blob. Client computes SHA-256, requests a presigned URL, and uploads directly to S3, bypassing API servers; hash-based dedupe returns the existing blob if present. The client inserts a placeholder op into the CRDT immediately and patches the final URL on completion. Async queue workers handle thumbnails, resizing, MIME validation, and malware scanning; enforce size caps and per-user upload rate limits.",
  "q15": "OpenTelemetry instrumentation across client and servers: Prometheus + Grafana for metrics (p99 edit-propagation latency, WebSocket connection counts, per-doc memory, reconnect rate), Tempo/Jaeger for traces following an op from keystroke to remote render, Loki/ELK for structured logs, Sentry for client and server errors, Alertmanager routing to PagerDuty. Core SLI: p99 keystroke-to-remote-render under 100ms; alert on sync lag, eviction storms, and snapshot failures."
}
```